zerotier/DOCS.md, before:

# Home Assistant Community Add-on: ZeroTier One

[ZeroTier][zerotier] delivers the capabilities of VPNs, SDN, and SD-WAN with
a single system. Manage all your connected resources across both local
and wide area networks as if the whole world is a single data center.

People use ZeroTier to seamlessly connect laptops, desktops, phones,
embedded devices, cloud resources, and apps any way they want anywhere they go.
It transforms the entire world into a single data center, to which you
can now add your Home Assistant instance using this add-on.

## Installation

The installation of this add-on is pretty straightforward and not different in
comparison to installing any other Home Assistant add-on.

1. Click the Home Assistant My button below to open the add-on on your Home
   Assistant instance.

   [![Open this add-on in your Home Assistant instance.][addon-badge]][addon]

1. Click the "Install" button to install the add-on.
1. Create a free account at [zerotier.com][zerotier] and get a network ID.
1. Set the "network_id" add-on option with your network ID.
1. Start the "ZeroTier One" add-on
1. Check the logs of the "ZeroTier One" add-on to see if everything went well.
1. The instance will show up in your ZeroTier account.

## Configuration

**Note**: _Remember to restart the add-on when the configuration is changed._

Example add-on configuration:

```yaml
networks:
  - wgfyiwe73747457
  - fhu3888892jjfdk
api_auth_token: ""
```

**Note**: _This is just an example, don't copy and paste it! Create your own!_

### Option: `log_level`

The `log_level` option controls the level of log output by the addon and can
be changed to be more or less verbose, which might be useful when you are
dealing with an unknown issue. Possible values are:

- `trace`: Show every detail, like all called internal functions.
- `debug`: Shows detailed debug information.
- `info`: Normal (usually) interesting events.
- `warning`: Exceptional occurrences that are not errors.
- `error`: Runtime errors that do not require immediate action.
- `fatal`: Something went terribly wrong. Add-on becomes unusable.

Please note that each level automatically includes log messages from a
more severe level, e.g., `debug` also shows `info` messages. By default,
the `log_level` is set to `info`, which is the recommended setting unless
you are troubleshooting.

### Option: `networks`

Configures one or more network identifiers of the networks (VLAN) to join.
You can find this number in your ZeroTier account.

**Note**: _This option support secrets, e.g., `!secret zerotier_network_id`._

### Option: `api_auth_token`

ZeroTier exposes a local HTTP JSON API, which uses the port set using the
`port` option above. It allows tools and programs to access this ZeroTier
instance for quering data (or control it).

This token is like a password for accessing that API, you can leave this
option empty if you are not planning on using this feature.

For more information on the ZeroTier JSON API, [check their documentation][api].

**Note**: _This option support secrets, e.g., `!secret zerotier_token`._

## Changelog & Releases

This repository keeps a change log using [GitHub's releases][releases]
functionality.

Releases are based on [Semantic Versioning][semver], and use the format
of `MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH`. In a nutshell, the version will be incremented
based on the following:

- `MAJOR`: Incompatible or major changes.
- `MINOR`: Backwards-compatible new features and enhancements.
- `PATCH`: Backwards-compatible bugfixes and package updates.

## Support

Got questions?

You have several options to get them answered:

- The [Home Assistant Community Add-ons Discord chat server][discord] for add-on
  support and feature requests.
- The [Home Assistant Discord chat server][discord-ha] for general Home
  Assistant discussions and questions.
- The Home Assistant [Community Forum][forum].
- Join the [Reddit subreddit][reddit] in [/r/homeassistant][reddit]

You could also [open an issue here][issue] GitHub.

## Authors & contributors

The original setup of this repository is by [Franck Nijhof][frenck].

For a full list of all authors and contributors,
check [the contributor's page][contributors].

## License

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2019-2025 Franck Nijhof

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

[addon-badge]: https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/supervisor_addon.svg
[addon]: https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/supervisor_addon/?addon=a0d7b954_zerotier&repository_url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fhassio-addons%2Frepository
[api]: https://www.zerotier.com/manual.shtml#4_1
[contributors]: https://github.com/hassio-addons/addon-zerotier/graphs/contributors
[discord-ha]: https://discord.gg/c5DvZ4e
[discord]: https://discord.me/hassioaddons
[forum]: https://community.home-assistant.io/t/home-assistant-community-add-on-zerotier-one/109091?u=frenck
[frenck]: https://github.com/frenck
[issue]: https://github.com/hassio-addons/addon-zerotier/issues
[reddit]: https://reddit.com/r/homeassistant
[releases]: https://github.com/hassio-addons/addon-zerotier/releases
[semver]: https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html
[zerotier]: https://www.zerotier.com/

Commit message:

Refactoring and renaming add-ons to apps (#297)

zerotier/DOCS.md, after:

# Home Assistant Community App: ZeroTier One

[ZeroTier][zerotier] delivers the capabilities of VPNs, SDN, and SD-WAN with
a single system. Manage all your connected resources across both local
and wide area networks as if the whole world is a single data center.

People use ZeroTier to seamlessly connect laptops, desktops, phones,
embedded devices, cloud resources, and apps any way they want anywhere they go.
It transforms the entire world into a single data center, to which you
can now add your Home Assistant instance using this app.

## Installation

The installation of this app is pretty straightforward and not different in
comparison to installing any other Home Assistant app.

1. Click the Home Assistant My button below to open the app on your Home
   Assistant instance.

   [![Open this app in your Home Assistant instance.][app-badge]][app]

1. Click the "Install" button to install the app.
1. Create a free account at [zerotier.com][zerotier] and get a network ID.
1. Set the "network_id" app option with your network ID.
1. Start the "ZeroTier One" app
1. Check the logs of the "ZeroTier One" app to see if everything went well.
1. The instance will show up in your ZeroTier account.

## Configuration

**Note**: _Remember to restart the app when the configuration is changed._

Example app configuration:

```yaml
networks:
  - wgfyiwe73747457
  - fhu3888892jjfdk
api_auth_token: ""
```

**Note**: _This is just an example, don't copy and paste it! Create your own!_

### Option: `log_level`

The `log_level` option controls the level of log output by the app and can
be changed to be more or less verbose, which might be useful when you are
dealing with an unknown issue. Possible values are:

- `trace`: Show every detail, like all called internal functions.
- `debug`: Shows detailed debug information.
- `info`: Normal (usually) interesting events.
- `warning`: Exceptional occurrences that are not errors.
- `error`: Runtime errors that do not require immediate action.
- `fatal`: Something went terribly wrong. App becomes unusable.

Please note that each level automatically includes log messages from a
more severe level, e.g., `debug` also shows `info` messages. By default,
the `log_level` is set to `info`, which is the recommended setting unless
you are troubleshooting.

### Option: `networks`

Configures one or more network identifiers of the networks (VLAN) to join.
You can find this number in your ZeroTier account.

**Note**: _This option support secrets, e.g., `!secret zerotier_network_id`._

### Option: `api_auth_token`

ZeroTier exposes a local HTTP JSON API, which uses the port set using the
`port` option above. It allows tools and programs to access this ZeroTier
instance for quering data (or control it).

This token is like a password for accessing that API, you can leave this
option empty if you are not planning on using this feature.

For more information on the ZeroTier JSON API, [check their documentation][api].

**Note**: _This option support secrets, e.g., `!secret zerotier_token`._

## Changelog & Releases

This repository keeps a change log using [GitHub's releases][releases]
functionality.

Releases are based on [Semantic Versioning][semver], and use the format
of `MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH`. In a nutshell, the version will be incremented
based on the following:

- `MAJOR`: Incompatible or major changes.
- `MINOR`: Backwards-compatible new features and enhancements.
- `PATCH`: Backwards-compatible bugfixes and package updates.

## Support

Got questions?

You have several options to get them answered:

- The [Home Assistant Community Apps Discord chat server][discord] for app
  support and feature requests.
- The [Home Assistant Discord chat server][discord-ha] for general Home
  Assistant discussions and questions.
- The Home Assistant [Community Forum][forum].
- Join the [Reddit subreddit][reddit] in [/r/homeassistant][reddit]

You could also [open an issue here][issue] GitHub.

## Authors & contributors

The original setup of this repository is by [Franck Nijhof][frenck].

For a full list of all authors and contributors,
check [the contributor's page][contributors].

## License

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2019-2026 Franck Nijhof

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

[app-badge]: https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/supervisor_addon.svg
[app]: https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/supervisor_addon/?addon=a0d7b954_zerotier&repository_url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fhassio-addons%2Frepository
[api]: https://www.zerotier.com/manual.shtml#4_1
[contributors]: https://github.com/hassio-addons/app-zerotier/graphs/contributors
[discord-ha]: https://discord.gg/c5DvZ4e
[discord]: https://discord.me/hassioaddons
[forum]: https://community.home-assistant.io/t/home-assistant-community-app-zerotier-one/109091?u=frenck
[frenck]: https://github.com/frenck
[issue]: https://github.com/hassio-addons/app-zerotier/issues
[reddit]: https://reddit.com/r/homeassistant
[releases]: https://github.com/hassio-addons/app-zerotier/releases
[semver]: https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html
[zerotier]: https://www.zerotier.com/
